README.md, before:

Google Search API
=====

*The original package was developed by Anthony Casagrande and can be downloaded at https://github.com/BirdAPI This is a forked package that I will continue maintaining in the foreseeable future*

Google Search API is a python based library for searching various functionalities of google.  It uses screen scraping to retrieve the results, and thus is unreliable if the way google's web pages are returned change in the future. This package is currently under heavy refactoring so changes in the user interface should be expected for the time being.

*Disclaimer: This software uses screen scraping to retrieve search results from google.com, and therefore this software may stop working at any given time.  Use this software at your own risk. I assume no responsibility for how this software API is used by others.*

Installation
------------

The repo is structured like a package, so it can be installed from pip using
github clone url. From command line type:

```
pip install Google-Search-API
```

To upgrade the package if you have already installed it:

```
pip install Google-Search-API --upgrade
```

You could also just download or clone the repo and import the package from
Google-Search-API folder.

```python
import os
os.chdir("C:\Path_where_repo_is")
import google
```

## Google Web Search
You can search google web in the following way:

```python
from google import google
search_results = google.Google.search("This is my query")
```

`search_results` will contain a list of `GoogleResult` objects

```python
GoogleResult:
    self.name # The title of the link
    self.link # The link url
    self.description # The description of the link
    self.thumb # The link to a thumbnail of the website (not implemented yet)
    self.cached # A link to the cached version of the page
    self.page # What page this result was on (When searching more than one page)
    self.index # What index on this page it was on
```


## Google Calculator
Attempts to search google calculator for the result of an expression. Returns a `CalculatorResult` if successful or `None` if it fails.

```python
from google import google
google.Google.calculate("157.3kg in grams")
```

```python
{'expr': u'157.3 kilograms',
 'fullstring': u'157.3 kilograms = 157\xa0300 grams',
 'result': u'157 300 grams',
 'unit': u'grams',
 'value': u'157300'}
```


```python
from google import google
google.Google.calculate("cos(25 pi) / 17.4")
```

```python
{'expr': u'cos(25 * pi) / 17.4',
 'fullstring': u'cos(25 * pi) / 17.4 = -0.0574712644',
 'result': u'-0.0574712644',
 'unit': None,
 'value': u'-0.0574712644'}
```

## Google Image Search
Searches google images for a list of images.  Image searches can be filtered to produce better results.

Perform a google image search on "banana" and filter it:

```python
from google import google, images
options = images.ImageOptions()
options.image_type = images.ImageType.CLIPART
options.larger_than = images.LargerThan.MP_4
options.color = "green"
results = google.Google.search_images("banana", options)
```

Sample Result:

```python
{'domain': u'exitrealworld.com',
 'filesize': u'4054k',
 'format': u'jpg',
 'height': u'3103',
 'index': 0,
 'link': u'http://www.exitrealworld.com/tools_v2/resources/9e55471ba84686ade677ffe595c45992/upload_images/YELLOW_BANANA.jpg',
 'name': u'Lib Tech Skate Banana BTX',
 'page': 0,
 'thumb': u'http://t3.gstatic.com/images?q=tbn:ANd9GcRzvAUW0en9eZTag3giWelcQ_xbrnBMXVChb3RU3v4HtEgxN3RMS0bSdidf',
 'width': u'3104'}
```

Filter options:

```python
ImageOptions:
    image_type # face, body, clipart, line drawing
    size_category # large, small, icon
    larger_than # the well known name of the smallest image size you want
    exact_width # the exact width of the image you want
    exact_height # the exact height of the image you want
    color_type # color, b&w, specific
    color # blue, green, red
```

Enums of values that can be used to filter image searches:

```python
class ImageType:
    NONE = None
    FACE = "face"
    PHOTO = "photo"
    CLIPART = "clipart"
    LINE_DRAWING = "lineart"

class SizeCategory:
    NONE = None
    ICON = "i"
    LARGE = "l"
    MEDIUM = "m"
    SMALL = "s"
    LARGER_THAN = "lt"
    EXACTLY = "ex"

class LargerThan:
    NONE = None
    QSVGA = "qsvga" # 400 x 300
    VGA = "vga"     # 640 x 480
    SVGA = "svga"   # 800 x 600
    XGA = "xga"     # 1024 x 768
    MP_2 = "2mp"    # 2 MP (1600 x 1200)
    MP_4 = "4mp"    # 4 MP (2272 x 1704)
    MP_6 = "6mp"    # 6 MP (2816 x 2112)
    MP_8 = "8mp"    # 8 MP (3264 x 2448)
    MP_10 = "10mp"  # 10 MP (3648 x 2736)
    MP_12 = "12mp"  # 12 MP (4096 x 3072)
    MP_15 = "15mp"  # 15 MP (4480 x 3360)
    MP_20 = "20mp"  # 20 MP (5120 x 3840)
    MP_40 = "40mp"  # 40 MP (7216 x 5412)
    MP_70 = "70mp"  # 70 MP (9600 x 7200)

class ColorType:
    NONE = None
    COLOR = "color"
    BLACK_WHITE = "gray"
    SPECIFIC = "specific"
```

## Google Currency Converter (Exchange Rates)
Convert between one currency and another using google calculator. Results are real time and can change at any time based on the current exchange rate according to google.

Convert 5 US Dollars to Euros using the official 3 letter currency acronym:

```python
from google import google
euros = google.Google.convert_currency(5.0, "USD", "EUR")
print "5.0 USD = {0} EUR".format(euros)
```

```python
5.0 USD = 3.82350692 EUR
```

Convert 1000 Japanese Yen to US Dollars:

```python
yen = google.Google.convert_currency(1000, "yen", "us dollars")
print "1000 yen = {0} us dollars".format(yen)
```

```python
1000 yen = 12.379 us dollars
```

Instead you can get the exchange rate which returns what 1 `from_currency` equals in `to_currency` and do your own math:

```python
rate = google.Google.exchange_rate("dollars", "pesos")
print "dollars -> pesos exchange rate = {0}".format(rate)
```

```python
dollars -> pesos exchange rate = 13.1580679
```

Perform your own math. The following 2 statements are equal:

```python
5.0 * google.Google.exchange_rate("USD", "EUR")
```

```python
google.Google.convert_currency(5.0, "USD", "EUR")
```

As a side note, `convert_currency` is always more accurate than performing your own math on `exchange_rate` because of possible rounding errors. However if you have more than one value to convert it is best to call `exchange_rate` and cache the result to use for multiple calculations instead of querying the google server for each one.

Commit message:

Relocation of API methods in separated modules is completed. All methods are functional in its primary data target, some secondary data gathering is yet to be implemented. Redesign of the public API interface is completed.

README.md, after:

Google Search API
=====

*The original package was developed by Anthony Casagrande and can be downloaded at https://github.com/BirdAPI This is a forked package that I will continue maintaining in the foreseeable future. I will try to maintain a strongly modularized design so when something is broken anyone can quickly repair it. All contributions are very welcome.*

Google Search API is a python based library for searching various functionalities of google.  It uses screen scraping to retrieve the results, and thus is unreliable if the way google's web pages are returned change in the future. This package is currently under heavy refactoring so changes in the user interface should be expected for the time being.

*Disclaimer: This software uses screen scraping to retrieve search results from google.com, and therefore this software may stop working at any given time.  Use this software at your own risk. I assume no responsibility for how this software API is used by others.*

Development current status
--------------------------

All methods are currently functioning and returning its primary target data. Although, some of the secondary data that is supposed to be collected in the result objects is not yet working.

Redesign of the package is still a work in progress. After completed, I will attempt to repair the gathering of secondary data.

Installation
------------

The repo is structured like a package, so it can be installed from pip using
github clone url. From command line type:

```
pip install Google-Search-API
```

To upgrade the package if you have already installed it:

```
pip install Google-Search-API --upgrade
```

You could also just download or clone the repo and import the package from
Google-Search-API folder.

```python
import os
os.chdir("C:\Path_where_repo_is")
import google
```

## Google Web Search
You can search google web in the following way:

```python
from google import google
search_results = google.search("This is my query")
```

`search_results` will contain a list of `GoogleResult` objects

```python
GoogleResult:
    self.name # The title of the link
    self.link # The link url
    self.description # The description of the link
    self.thumb # The link to a thumbnail of the website (not implemented yet)
    self.cached # A link to the cached version of the page
    self.page # What page this result was on (When searching more than one page)
    self.index # What index on this page it was on
```


## Google Calculator
Attempts to search google calculator for the result of an expression. Returns a `CalculatorResult` if successful or `None` if it fails.

```python
from google import google
google.calculate("157.3kg in grams")
```

```python
{'expr': u'157.3 kilograms',
 'fullstring': u'157.3 kilograms = 157\xa0300 grams',
 'result': u'157 300 grams',
 'unit': u'grams',
 'value': u'157300'}
```


```python
from google import google
google.calculate("cos(25 pi) / 17.4")
```

```python
{'expr': u'cos(25 * pi) / 17.4',
 'fullstring': u'cos(25 * pi) / 17.4 = -0.0574712644',
 'result': u'-0.0574712644',
 'unit': None,
 'value': u'-0.0574712644'}
```

## Google Image Search
Searches google images for a list of images.  Image searches can be filtered to produce better results.

Perform a google image search on "banana" and filter it:

```python
from google import google, images
options = images.ImageOptions()
options.image_type = images.ImageType.CLIPART
options.larger_than = images.LargerThan.MP_4
options.color = "green"
results = google.search_images("banana", options)
```

Sample Result:

```python
{'domain': u'exitrealworld.com',
 'filesize': u'4054k',
 'format': u'jpg',
 'height': u'3103',
 'index': 0,
 'link': u'http://www.exitrealworld.com/tools_v2/resources/9e55471ba84686ade677ffe595c45992/upload_images/YELLOW_BANANA.jpg',
 'name': u'Lib Tech Skate Banana BTX',
 'page': 0,
 'thumb': u'http://t3.gstatic.com/images?q=tbn:ANd9GcRzvAUW0en9eZTag3giWelcQ_xbrnBMXVChb3RU3v4HtEgxN3RMS0bSdidf',
 'width': u'3104'}
```

Filter options:

```python
ImageOptions:
    image_type # face, body, clipart, line drawing
    size_category # large, small, icon
    larger_than # the well known name of the smallest image size you want
    exact_width # the exact width of the image you want
    exact_height # the exact height of the image you want
    color_type # color, b&w, specific
    color # blue, green, red
```

Enums of values that can be used to filter image searches:

```python
class ImageType:
    NONE = None
    FACE = "face"
    PHOTO = "photo"
    CLIPART = "clipart"
    LINE_DRAWING = "lineart"

class SizeCategory:
    NONE = None
    ICON = "i"
    LARGE = "l"
    MEDIUM = "m"
    SMALL = "s"
    LARGER_THAN = "lt"
    EXACTLY = "ex"

class LargerThan:
    NONE = None
    QSVGA = "qsvga" # 400 x 300
    VGA = "vga"     # 640 x 480
    SVGA = "svga"   # 800 x 600
    XGA = "xga"     # 1024 x 768
    MP_2 = "2mp"    # 2 MP (1600 x 1200)
    MP_4 = "4mp"    # 4 MP (2272 x 1704)
    MP_6 = "6mp"    # 6 MP (2816 x 2112)
    MP_8 = "8mp"    # 8 MP (3264 x 2448)
    MP_10 = "10mp"  # 10 MP (3648 x 2736)
    MP_12 = "12mp"  # 12 MP (4096 x 3072)
    MP_15 = "15mp"  # 15 MP (4480 x 3360)
    MP_20 = "20mp"  # 20 MP (5120 x 3840)
    MP_40 = "40mp"  # 40 MP (7216 x 5412)
    MP_70 = "70mp"  # 70 MP (9600 x 7200)

class ColorType:
    NONE = None
    COLOR = "color"
    BLACK_WHITE = "gray"
    SPECIFIC = "specific"
```

## Google Currency Converter (Exchange Rates)
Convert between one currency and another using google calculator. Results are real time and can change at any time based on the current exchange rate according to google.

Convert 5 US Dollars to Euros using the official 3 letter currency acronym:

```python
from google import google
euros = google.convert_currency(5.0, "USD", "EUR")
print "5.0 USD = {0} EUR".format(euros)
```

```python
5.0 USD = 3.82350692 EUR
```

Convert 1000 Japanese Yen to US Dollars:

```python
yen = google.convert_currency(1000, "yen", "us dollars")
print "1000 yen = {0} us dollars".format(yen)
```

```python
1000 yen = 12.379 us dollars
```

Instead you can get the exchange rate which returns what 1 `from_currency` equals in `to_currency` and do your own math:

```python
rate = google.exchange_rate("dollars", "pesos")
print "dollars -> pesos exchange rate = {0}".format(rate)
```

```python
dollars -> pesos exchange rate = 13.1580679
```

Perform your own math. The following 2 statements are equal:

```python
5.0 * google.exchange_rate("USD", "EUR")
```

```python
google.convert_currency(5.0, "USD", "EUR")
```

As a side note, `convert_currency` is always more accurate than performing your own math on `exchange_rate` because of possible rounding errors. However if you have more than one value to convert it is best to call `exchange_rate` and cache the result to use for multiple calculations instead of querying the google server for each one.
